So now let's talk about Amazon GuardDuty.
GuardDuty helps you do intelligent threat discovery
to protect your AWS accounts.
How does it do it?
Well, it has machine learning algorithm, performs anomaly
detection and uses third party data to find these threats.
So to enable it, it's just one click.
Then you have a 30 days trial.
You don't need to install any software.
So GuardDuty is going to look at a lot of input data,
such as your CloudTrail event logs
to look for unusual API calls
or unauthorized deployments.
It's going to look at your management events
and your data events.
So for example, on the management side,
the create VPC Subnet event and so on,
whereas on the S3 data events
for example, get object, list objects, delete objects
and so on.
And then for VPC flow logs, it's going to look
at unusual internet traffic.
It's going to look at unusual IP addresses.
DNS logs to look at EC2 instances, sending encoded data
within DNS queries, which would mean they're compromised
and optional features to allow you to analyze, for example,
other input data sources such as your EKS audit logs,
your RDS and Aurora login events, your EBS, your Lambda
and your S3 data events.
So we can also set up EventBridge rules to
be notified automatically in case you have findings.
And then these rules can target whatever EventBridge
can target, such as AWS, Lambda, or SNS topics.
Also, this can come up in the exam.
GuardDuty is a very good tool to protect you
against cryptocurrency attacks
because there is a dedicated finding for it.
So it knows how to analyze all these input data
and find that there is a cryptocurrency attack.
So to summarize, within GuardDuty,
we have several input data.
We have the VPC flow logs,
the CloudTrail logs, and the DNS logs
that will be, no matter what, into GuardDuty
as well as some optional features you can enable,
such as your S3 logs, your EBS volumes,
your Lambda network activity, RDS and Aurora login activity
and your EKS logs and runtime monitoring as well
as most likely, more features over time
that I will not put here
because you get the idea of optional features.
And so from all these things,
then GuardDuty can generate findings
and if these findings are detected,
an event is created in Amazon EventBridge.
And therefore from EventBridge, thanks to rules,
we can trigger automations, for example,
using Lambda functions
or send notifications, for example, using SNS.
So that's it for this lecture.
I hope you liked it and I will see you in the next lecture.